README.md, before:

# smartport-nano-shield
![assembled](docs/combined-boards.jpg)

This is a custom PCB to run the SmartportSD FAT code from Katherine Stark (based on the work of Robert Justice and Andrea Ottaviani) allowing you to connect a 32MB ProDOS partition to your SmartPort enabled Apple II (IIc, IIc+, IIgs).  Yes, it works with Total Replay.

Katherine's original repo is at https://gitlab.com/nyankat/smartportsd

I have a fork at https://gitlab.com/tersteeg/smartportsd that adds support for the four LED's in this design that show you the currently active partition.

All components can be sourced from the usual low cost China based vendors for a total build cost of around $10.  Please see the assembly page for more details.

[Hardware Component Choices and Assembly](https://djtersteegc.github.io/smartportsd-nano-shield/assembly.html)

An interactive BOM and parts placement diagram is also available.

[Interactive Bill of Materials (BOM)](https://djtersteegc.github.io/smartportsd-nano-shield/ibom.html)

If you wish to power your board from the 5V SmartPort line, simply install and close jumper JP1.  Be warned there is no protection on the board from back feeding voltage into the Apple host computer if you also power the Arduino via the USB connector, so only close this jumper when not using another power source on the Arduino.

STL's and the [DesignSpark Mechanical](https://www.rs-online.com/designspark/mechanical-software) source file for an simple snap fit enclosure are in the **enclosure** directory. Clearances are intentionally a bit tight so nothing rattles, but it prints well on a standard Ender 3 type printer without any post processing needed.

<img src="docs/enclosure.jpg" alt="enclosure" style="zoom: 25%;" /> 

# Getting a Board

If I have extra PCB's, they will be listed on Tindie.

https://www.tindie.com/products/tersteeg/smartportsd-apple-ii-pcb/

Otherwise you can download the Gerbers and use your favorite fab (JLCPCB, PCBWay, etc.) to make your own batch.  It's a standard two layer, 1oz copper board with dimensions of 70mm x 56mm.

# Hardware Revisions

### Version 1.0

Tested and working.

# Acknowledgments

Robert Justice for his original SmartPortCFA project http://www.users.on.net/~rjustice/SmartportCFA/SmartportCFA.htm

Andrea Ottaviani for his Arduino/SD port of Robert's work http://www.users.on.net/~rjustice/SmartportCFA/SmartportSD.htm

Katherine Stark for adding FAT support to Andrea's work to make it easier to manage the partitions on the SD card.

Commit message:

Initial round of updated docs for the SMD version

README.md, after:

![nano-and-smd](docs/nano-and-smd.jpg)

A couple PCB's I've designed to run the SmartportSD FAT code from Katherine Stark (based on the work of Robert Justice and Andrea Ottaviani) allowing you to connect a 32MB ProDOS partition to your SmartPort enabled Apple II (IIc, IIc+, IIgs). If you have a Apple IIe, solutions like a SoftSP card with you Disk II card, or something like Brad Bell's [SmartDiskII](https://github.com/btb/SmartDiskII) card will also allow hookup and usage. Yes, it works with Total Replay.

# SmartportSD Nano Shield

![nano-parts](docs/nano-parts.jpg)

This is my original design.  Works best with a Duo Disk cable, but has a header to wire up a custom cable if needed.  All through hold modules, super easy build. I added some additional LED's to indicate which of the four ProDOS partitions is currently loaded.

See the [Nano Shield page](smartport-nano-shield/README.md) for BOM and assembly instructions.

# SmartportSD SMD

![smd-parts](docs/smd-parts.jpg)

This one is a bit more of an advanced build and is based of my [Tapecart SD](https://github.com/djtersteegc/tapecart-sd-vertical) design I did for the Commodore 64. Uses a full size SD card for ease of handling and plugs in directly to the back of an Apple IIc/c+/gs.  There is a lightpipe for the activity LED and the narrow case design allows plenty of clearance for the bulkiest composite video connectors I could find in my collection.

![smd-iic-back](docs/smd-iic-back.jpg)

![smd-iic-top](docs/smd-iic-top.jpg)

![smd-iigs-back](docs/smd-iigs-back.jpg)

![smd-iigs-side](docs/smd-iigs-side.jpg)

See the [SMD page](smartport-smd/README.md) for BOM and assembly instructions.

# Getting a Board

If I have extra PCB's, they will be listed on Tindie.

https://www.tindie.com/products/tersteeg/smartportsd-apple-ii-pcb/

Otherwise you can download the gerbers and use your favorite fab (JLCPCB, PCBWay, etc.) to make your own batch.

# Acknowledgements

Robert Justice for his original SmartPortCFA project http://www.users.on.net/~rjustice/SmartportCFA/SmartportCFA.htm

Andrea Ottaviani for his Arduino/SD port of Robert's work http://www.users.on.net/~rjustice/SmartportCFA/SmartportSD.htm

Katherine Stark for adding FAT support to Andrea's work to make it easier to manage the partitions on the SD card. https://gitlab.com/nyankat/smartportsd
